Docs: Custom Actions (#423)
amplication/docs: docs/how-to/custom-actions.md

---
title: Custom Actions Explained
sidebar_label: Custom Actions Explained
slug: /custom-actions
---

# Custom Actions Explained

Custom Actions give you the ability to enable or disable specific default API functions related to CRUD operations. This feature significantly enhances your control over the generated REST and GraphQL APIs to ensure that your API contains only the necessary code tailored to your requirements.

![Custom Actions](./assets/custom-actions.png)

:::note
The Custom Actions feature is available in Amplication's **Enterprise** plan.
:::

## How To Enable Custom Actions For An Entity

> To utilize Custom Actions for an entity, begin by accessing the new **Modules** tab in your Amplication dashboard. Here, each entity is associated with a _Module_, allowing you to perform _Module Actions_, operations on these entities with or without API endpoints.

Reviewer: Not sure I understand the "with or without API endpoints". I would omit it.
@morhag90 - WDYT?

Reviewer: The ',' after the "_Module Actions_" should be removed

> To utilize Custom Actions for an entity, begin by accessing the new **Modules** tab in your Amplication dashboard. Here, each entity is associated with a _Module_, allowing you to perform _Module Actions_, operations on these entities with or without API endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To utilize Custom Actions for an entity, begin by accessing the new **Modules** tab in your Amplication dashboard. Here, each entity is associated with a _Module_, allowing you to enable or disable each of the APIs associated with this Module (or all of the APIs related to this Module at once).
```

1. Navigate to the **Modules** tab.
2. Select the **Entity** for which you wish to enable Custom Actions.

> 3. Toggle between REST or GraphQL to apply Custom Actions for the chosen API type.

Reviewer: Let's omit this item as disabling or enabling will affect all the defined APIs

> 3. Toggle between REST or GraphQL to apply Custom Actions for the chosen API type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Activate the Module for the entity by toggling on the switch next to its name.

Reviewer: Let's add- "Note that deactivation the Module will affect all its CRUD methods"
